Aetna Insurance
Aetna is a health insurance provider owned by CVS Health. It’s one of the oldest and largest health insurance companies in the country, with a history dating back to the 1800s. Aetna got its start selling life insurance. Today, it also offers various medical and dental plans nationwide.

Aetna wasn’t always available in California. In 2018, the California Department of Health Care Services (DHCS) approved Aetna joining Medi-Cal with its Better Health of California plan, offered in San Diego and Sacramento counties. Then, in 2023, Aetna CVS Health joined Covered California to offer individual and family health insurance.

What Is Aetna Known For?
People choose Aetna for its vast network of providers, competitive rates and long history in the insurance industry. It also offers benefits like access to 24/7 virtual care at no or low costs, depending on your plan, and mental health coverage. Aetna is regarded as a good health insurance provider overall.

How Do You Get an Aetna Plan in California?
The first step to getting Aetna health insurance in California is determining if it’s available in your area. Aetna CVS Health currently serves the following counties:

El Dorado
Fresno
Kings
Madera
Placer
Sacramento
Yolo
The next step is to apply. You’ll need to wait until the open enrollment period, which typically starts in November and ends in January.

However, you can enter a special enrollment period if you’ve experienced a qualifying life event. This opportunity will allow you to apply and enroll in an Aetna plan outside of open enrollment. You can start the application process easily through our site, beginning with a free, fast quote.

If you’re eligible for a Medi-Cal plan, like Aetna Better Health of California, you can enroll year-round. But first, you must determine if you’re eligible for Medi-Cal. You’ll need to consider whether you meet the income, age or medical requirements. For example, if you earn less than $20,121 a year, you could be eligible.

You can also determine Medi-Cal eligibility by using our online quote and selecting the option to see if you qualify for a discount.

What Does Aetna CVS Health Cover?
Aetna CVS Health is compliant with the Affordable Care Act (ACA), meaning it covers essential benefits such as:

Medical care for adults and children
Mental health services
Maternity care
Hospitalization and emergency services
Prescriptions
Lab services
Preventive care
Chronic disease management
As a Medi-Cal beneficiary with an Aetna plan, you’ll also have dental care benefits with Denti-Cal. Your medications will be covered under Medi-Cal Rx rather than Aetna.

Is Aetna Better Than Kaiser Permanente?
The National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA) gives Kaiser Permanente a higher rating than Aetna plans overall. These ratings are based on patient happiness, the quality of care received and the plan’s efforts to improve. You can review any health plan’s ratings on the NCQA site here.

Learn More About Aetna With Us
Do you have more questions about Aetna health insurance? We’re here for you. At Health for California, we understand that applying for health insurance can be confusing. You might have a lot of questions or need clarification about the best options available to you and your family.

Our agents can answer questions about Aetna or any Covered California health plan. We’re happy to help you find an affordable health plan stress-free.

If you’re ready to apply for health insurance, our online application process is quick and simple. Get started today with a free quote.