Insurance Company
Anthem Blue Cross Health Insurance Coverage
Find the Lowest Prices Available on Anthem Blue Cross Medical Insurance Plans or Get Discounts Through Our Covered California Options

With over 8.6 million members in California alone, Anthem Blue Cross covers more Californians than any other carrier in the state. Anthem has been with Covered California since the beginning of the Affordable Care Act in 2014.

Founded in 1936, Anthem has grown from a small company to one of the nation’s largest carriers. Today, Anthem Blue Cross of California is a subsidiary of Anthem Inc. and is an independent licensee of the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association located in Thousand Oaks, California.

There are some changes you should take note of for the 2023 coverage year. Anthem Blue Cross has expanded its coverage area to these regions:

Region 1: Butte, Amador, Alpine, Del Norte, Colusa, Calaveras, Lake, Humboldt, Glenn, Lassen, Nevada, Modoc, Mendocino, Shasta, Plumas, Siskiyou, Sierra, Sutter, Trinity, Tehama, Tuolumne and Yuba Counties
Region 7: Santa Clara County
Region 9: Santa Cruz, San Benito and Monterey Counties
Region 10: San Joaquin, Stanislaus, Merced, Mariposa and Tulare Counties
Region 12: Santa Barbara, Ventura and San Luis Obispo Counties
Region 13: Mono, Inyo and Imperial Counties
Region 14: Kern County
Network
Anthem’s broad provider network includes over 65,000 care providers in California.

Anthem has made strides to strengthen physician partnerships, including those serving the rural Amador, Monterey, Shasta, Humboldt, Sutter and Butte counties. It is also working to improve its provider list so that consumers receive accurate information on current providers that are available and would be covered.

And now with its BlueCard program, EPO members that travel the U.S. will have access to a wide network of doctors and hospitals.

The Future Is Here
Integration is the wave of the future. It’s become a focal point as Anthem seeks to coordinate doctors and hospitals to provide a seamless experience and coordinated treatment plans for its members.

Anthem is excited to offer telehealth through LiveHealth. This online program that you can use in the privacy of your home offers real-time face-to-face visits with a doctor of your choice of various specialties. Anthem offers this convenient service 24 hours a day, seven days a week, to all members for a small copay.

Anthem members can also access robust online tools that help them:

Select a doctor
Estimate the cost of a procedure
Review billing information
Submit claims
Access customer support
View video tutorials
Take advantage of member discounts through participating gyms
Get a Quote for Anthem Blue Cross Health Insurance From Health for California
At Health for California, we know that finding the right health insurance provider can be daunting. You want to pick the package that works best for you and your entire family. And with so many options and packages on the market, you may wonder where to begin. Health for California’s mission is to make this process easier for every Californian. We want you to feel confident about your decision, so we structure our plans for easy comparisons to help you find the one that meets your needs.

We do this by breaking our health insurance plans down into easy-to-understand tiers. Whether you’re a single individual wanting an affordable rate or you’re someone who wants maximum coverage for the whole family, there’s a package that’s perfect for you. Here are the tiers of Anthem Blue Cross coverage you can choose from:

Bronze 60 Plan: This plan is ideal for individuals who want to make small monthly payments in return for a small number of checkups and preventative care actions. Keep in mind that if you choose this plan, you’ll have to pay more upfront every time you see a specialist. If you have no dependents and expect few visits to the doctor this year, you can feel confident choosing the Bronze Plan.
Silver 70 Plan: Individuals who work hard to keep their health in good condition may want to choose the Silver Plan. In this plan, you’ll make average monthly payments to receive all the basics you might need as an individual in California. You’ll still have to pay out-of-pocket for hospital visits or outpatient surgeries.
Gold 80 Plan: The Gold Plan is a great choice for individuals or small families looking for comprehensive coverage for modest monthly payments. While you may be paying more than the Bronze and Silver Plans, you’ll have a lower deductible every time you visit the hospital or see a specialist, which can save you more money over time.
Platinum 90 Plan: When you choose the Platinum Plan, you’ll make higher monthly payments in exchange for top-tier health insurance coverage. This coverage includes regular visits to the physician or emergency room plus preventative care. And the best part is you get to skip the deductible and keep more money in your pocket. The Platinum Plan is perfect for families looking for great coverage while reducing their out-of-pocket expenses.
Take the first step toward investing in your health by requesting an Anthem Blue Cross health insurance quote online from Health for California.
