Family Health Insurance in California
Many families in California are still uninsured. When it comes to your family, having an
affordable family health insurance plan is critical. Family health insurance is meant to protect you and your loved
ones against the expensive costs that come with medical emergencies.

Many medical procedures now cost thousands of dollars. Instead of suffering the risk of
not having any health coverage, why not take some time to learn about the different options and select a plan that’s
right for your budget?

Health insurance plans for a family in California
California family health insurance is cheaper than most people think. The most popular
choice of affordable family health insurance in California is managed care plans. These types of plans give you
access to a network of hospitals, doctors, clinics and specialists who provide medical services at affordable rates.
For you, this means inexpensive insurance as well as lower premiums, coinsurance and copayments.

The two most common kinds of managed care plans in California are:

PPOs (Preferred Provider Organization): PPO plans provide flexible medical
coverage. You and your family will have a primary care physician, but you can see any specialist you want without
a referral. However, you’ll save more money when you go to an in-network doctor than when you go to an
out-of-network doctor.
HMOs (Health Maintenance Organization): With HMO plans, you choose a primary
care physician who will be your go-to doctor whenever you need medical care. If you or your family needs
specialist care, your primary doctor will refer you to a specialist.
Copayments in HMO plans can be as little as $10. The only disadvantage with HMO plans is
the fact that you can only receive care from doctors in your network plan because other services are not covered
outside the network.

How Much Will a Family Plan Cost You Per Month?
Naturally, you want to know how much a family health plan will cost you per month, and you can get a free and
instant California health insurance quotes online for your family. How much you pay per month will be
determined by several factors including:
-Your household income
-Number of people in your household
-Number of people enrolling on the family health plan
-Age of each family member
-The health plan you choose
-ZIP code

On the bronze plan, you’ll make small monthly payments while receiving 60% coverage for
most medical services along with checkups and preventative care. On the silver plan, you’ll make average monthly
payments while receiving 70% coverage for basic care and more.

On the gold plan, you’ll make moderate monthly payments while receiving 80% coverage with
reasonable copays and no deductibles. On the platinum plan, you’ll make higher payments while receiving 90% coverage
on regular visits, emergencies and preventative care with $0 deductible.

Also, based on your household income, and if you are not offered insurance through an
employer or spouses employer you could qualify for tax credits, Medi-Cal, C-CHIP or MCAP. For more information on
whether you qualify for subsidies and government assistance, review the Covered
California Income Limits.

Finding the Right Family Health Insurance Plan
Now that you are more knowledgeable about family health insurance plans in California, we
are here to help you find the best coverage. Our online services will provide you with free, instant quotes from the
top insurance companies.

Take a few seconds to complete our confidential
form. No contact information is needed, and you are under no obligation to buy. Take advantage of our
free, instant quotes to get the family health insurance you’ve been looking for today.