Health Net Health Insurance Coverage
About Health Net:



Health Net believes every person deserves a safety net for their health, regardless of age, income, employment status or current state of health. Founded in

California more than 40 years ago, HealthNet is dedicated to transforming the health of the community, one person at a time. Health Net provides health plans for individuals, families, businesses of every size and people who qualify for Medi-Cal or Medicare — Coverage for Every Stage of LifeTM. Health Net offers the following plans:

Exclusive provider organization (EPO)
Health maintenance organization (HMO)
Preferred provider organization (PPO)
Health care services plans (HSP)

Committed to improving the health of all Californians, Health Net has a plan to keep members healthy by focusing on preventative care, identifying the needs of members on an ongoing basis, and reducing health disparities. Programs like Start Smart for Your Baby, Digital Diabetes Management, and more allow members to take control of every aspect of their health in pursuit of holistic wellness.

With millions of members in California alone, Health Net’s network offers something for everyone. Health Net Covered California plans are available in much of California.

As of 2015, Health Net Covered California enrollees can access University of California Los Angeles (UCLA) hospitals and doctors by selecting the Small Group Health Net PPO on all metal tiers, including Bronze, Silver, Gold and Platinum.

In 2018, Health Net brought its PPO into Sacramento, Placer, Yolo, Los Angeles, San Diego and parts of Southern California.

Its EnhancedCare PPO will give members the flexibility they expect from a PPO without all the cost. It comes with a smaller PPO network at a lower cost but still includes access to an advice nurse, virtual doctor, retail clinic and the Enhanced Care hospitals and doctors in-network. If members want to go out of network, they can, but at a higher cost. It basically puts them in the driver’s seat.

To learn more, preview Health Net’s provider network.

The Future Is Here
Licensed nurses are available to Health Net members 24/7 to assist with many concerns, including minor illnesses and injuries, advice on urgent health situations and other health questions.

Members also have access to online tools that allow them to see details about their plan and pharmacy benefits, view health screenings, change a doctor, use programs for weight management and more.

Health Net offers a variety of health education classes in English and many in Spanish.

Get a Quote for Health Net
Beginning in 2022, Health Net’s individual and family plans (IFP) have a new name, Ambetter from Health Net. The Ambetter name will help Health Net draw from the national strength of Centene, their parent company, with new programs and services designed to help members achieve better health results. Life is uncertain, but with the right health care package, you can enjoy greater peace of mind for whatever life throws your way. Health coverage gives you experienced, effective health care to fall back on when you need it most. Ambetter from Health Net is the customizable answer to your health care needs.

To help you choose the right package, here’s a description of the Ambetter from Health Net insurance plans that are available:

Bronze 60 Plan: As one of the most affordable options available, this plan is perfect if you want to make small monthly payments while still receiving coverage for a few checkups and some preventative care. We understand you only want to pay for what you need. If you’re a young person with no dependents, this plan could be the answer you’ve been looking for. Keep in mind that you’ll have to pay out of pocket if you need to see a specialist.
Silver 70 Plan: After choosing the Silver Plan, you’ll make higher monthly payments than the Bronze Plan but receive more coverage benefits in return. The Silver Plan covers all the basics you could need and more for health care in California. Although, you will have to pay more when visiting the hospital or receiving outpatient surgery. Choose this plan if you’re the type of person who works hard to make sure you always have the health care you need.
Gold 80 Plan: You’ll pay modest monthly payments after choosing the Gold Plan, and you’ll get excellent, comprehensive health care coverage as a result. You’ll enjoy low out-of-pocket costs when visiting the hospital or seeing a specialist. The lower deductible you’ll have to pay when health needs arise will allow you to save more money in the long run. And of course, saving more means having a bigger budget and more peace of mind for the future.
Platinum 90 Plan: The Platinum Plan demands higher monthly payments, but the result is the highest level of care you can receive from Health Net. The benefits of this plan include handling emergencies, receiving preventative care and visiting the physician, all without having to pay a deductible. If you’re an individual looking to avoid out-of-pocket expenses for yourself or your family, then this plan is for you.
Request an Ambetter from Health Net health insurance quote today to take the next step toward obtaining high-quality health care for you and your loved ones. To learn more about the company, follow Health Net on Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube.

