IEHP Insurance
Inland Empire Health Plan (IEHP) is a wellness-focused, Medi-Cal managed care plan serving residents in the Inland Empire (IE) region. It was established in 1994 as the region’s Medi-Cal plan. Today, IEHP also offers metallic plans, including a low-cost silver plan, through Covered California for individuals who aren’t eligible for Medi-Cal.

Why Choose IEHP?
IEHP is known as a health insurance provider that cares about its community and improving access to quality health care. It provides zero-premium or low-cost plans to eligible individuals. IEHP offers advantages such as:

Local customer support team
Care coordinators to help members plan appointments
Free 24/7 nurse advice line
More than 8,000 providers and over 90 urgent care centers in its network
What Kind of Insurance Is Inland Empire Health Plan?
IEHP is one of the largest Medicaid health plans in the country. It also offers Covered California plans.

Currently, IEHP is only available to residents in San Bernardino and Riverside counties. Residents of these counties can consider three different types of IEHP coverage:

IEHP Medi-Cal: This plan is an option for those who qualify for Medi-Cal. Members do not have to pay a monthly premium and will receive benefits like free doctor visits and hospital stays.
IEHP DualChoice: DualChoice combines Medi-Cal and Medicare benefits in a single plan. It’s a zero-cost, comprehensive health plan available to qualified residents.
IEHP Covered: This is IEHP’s Covered California option for those not eligible for Medi-Cal. IEHP Covered offers low-cost silver plans for qualified individuals, some with zero-dollar monthly premiums. It also provides bronze, gold and platinum plans.
Is IEHP the Same as Medi-Cal?
IEHP is not the same as Medi-Cal — but they work together. Medi-Cal is California’s Medicaid program that provides services and benefits through different counties’ managed care plans. IEHP is one of those managed care plans for residents in Riverside and San Bernardino counties.

What Are Inland Empire Health Plan Services and Benefits?
Like all Medi-Cal and Covered California plans, IEHP provides essential benefits such as covering emergency services, preventive care and doctor appointments. It also offers vision services and free wellness classes to community members at its resource centers in Riverside, San Bernardino and Victorville.

How Do You Join IEHP in California?
You can apply for health insurance and enroll in an IEHP plan through Covered California — the state’s marketplace. However, you don’t have to go through the state’s complicated application process. Instead, you can apply for an IEHP plan right here on our site.

We make it easy to enroll in a Medi-Cal or Covered California health plan. When you request a quick and simple quote on our site, our system will automatically determine your eligibility for a Medi-Cal plan like IEHP Medi-Cal and guide you to the next step.

If you don’t qualify for Medi-Cal, you can use our application process to shop for an affordable IEHP Covered California plan that meets your needs.

Choose a Great Health Plan Today
IEHP is an excellent choice for IE residents seeking no-cost or low-cost health insurance — but IEHP is just one option for great health care coverage. Complete our fast application today and discover various health plans for your budget and health care goals. If you run into any questions, know that our agents are always happy to help.

Contact us today to find out more about IEHP or any other California health plan.






Qualifying Life Event	Deadline	Effective Date
Permanently moved to/within California

Got married

January 15th	February 1st
February 15th	March 1st
March 15th	April 1st
April 15th	May 1st
May 15th	June 1st
June 15th	July 1st
July 15th	August 1st
August 15th	September 1st
September 15th	October 1st
October 15th	November 1st
November 15th	December 1st
December 31st	January 1st
Involuntary loss of health insurance

January 31st	February 1st
February 28th	March 1st
March 31st	April 1st
April 30th	May 1st
May 31st	June 1st
June 30th	July 1st
July 31st	August 1st
August 31st	September 1st
September 30th	October 1st
October 31st	November 1st
November 30th	December 1st