Insurance Company
Kaiser Permanente Health Insurance Coverage
Find the Lowest Prices Available on Kaiser Permanente Medical Insurance Plans or Get Discounts Through Our Covered California Options

Kaiser Permanente is the oldest and largest Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) in the United States, serving eight states and the District of Columbia. Its largest membership base is in California with over 8 million, many of which are Covered California Kaiser plans.

Kaiser has sought to lead the way in the healthcare model on many fronts. Its integrated delivery of care is what makes it so unique. A patient’s care is coordinated and connected all within one system from the beginning to the end. This can include but is not limited to an office visit, lab work, treatment, disease management and in-patient procedure to recovery.

Kaiser Permanente online tools to manage your health

The organization comprises three parts:

Permanente Medical Groups, which are for-profit professional organizations
Kaiser Foundation Health Plans, which are nonprofit, public-benefit corporations
Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, which is a nonprofit, public-benefit corporation
Kaiser Permanente’s history is one of innovation. After seeing the results of evolved healthcare programs for industrial workers in the ’30s and ’40s, Henry J. Kaiser started offering prepaid medical services to his shipyard workers in Richmond, California. This successful model of health coverage was later offered to the public in 1945, founding Kaiser Permanente. Today Kaiser Permanente’s headquarters is in Oakland, California.

Kaiser Permanente insurance is one of the top three choices offered on the California State Exchange. Twenty-four percent of enrollees with the CA State Insurance Exchange have Covered California Kaiser plans.

Take Note
Every year the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA), a nonprofit organization, surveys the performance of over 1,000 health plans (Medicare, Medicaid and Private (Commercial)) and releases a report based on the findings.

NCQA Health Plans Ratings for 2019-2020 gave Kaiser Foundation Health Plan in Northern California 4.5 out of 5 for its commercial health plan. These ratings are based on the health plan’s experience, prevention and treatment. Kaiser is proud that their plans are rated among the best in the nation with no plan rated lower than 4.5.

Network
Covered California Kaiser plans are offered in all of California’s 19 pricing regions.

Kaiser is an “in-house” network which means medical services are provided by a Kaiser medical group, a Kaiser laboratory, a Kaiser pharmacy and a Kaiser hospital. Members can visit their doctor, have labs done and fill a prescription all under one roof, which makes it extremely convenient.

For select regions that do not have one or some of these options, Kaiser has contracted with a local hospital, pharmacy and physician group, so you can find various Kaiser Permanente locations and doctors. For emergency and urgent care needs, Kaiser Permanente members are covered anywhere in the world.

The Future Is Here
“Thrive” is Kaiser’s public campaign slogan. They seek to encourage all members to live life to the fullest with a big emphasis on preventative care and healthy lifestyle choices that impact overall well-being.

Services such as these are added benefits to every member’s plan:

24/7 access to advice nurses over the phone
Disease management programs
Healthy lifestyle programs and classes
Discounts on fitness programs
Online tools such as emailing your doctor, scheduling routine appointments, refilling prescriptions and checking lab results make managing health care convenient and streamlined.

Kaiser has also introduced “Video Visits” with a doctor, which provides a convenient way for members enrolled on Covered California Kaiser Plans to access care that is secure and efficient.

Get a Quote for Kaiser Health Insurance
Life is uncertain, but you can enjoy peace of mind with Kaiser health insurance. Put the health of you and your family in the hands of a reputable, respected health insurance provider like Kaiser, and you’ll always know that you have your health needs covered when you need it most. From hospital visits to meetings with a specialist, life will take you on an unpredictable path. When partnering with Kaiser, you can navigate these twists and turns of life with confidence.

When choosing a health insurance plan, you should pick the one that meets your health needs while fitting into your budget. And remember that when it comes to your health and peace of mind, the cost is always worth it. Thankfully, Health for California offers affordable Kaiser Permanente health insurance plans so you can get the coverage you need at a price that works for you. Here are our four main health insurance plans:

Bronze 60 Plan: The Bronze plan is a great option for individuals who want to receive health care at the most affordable rate. In exchange for low monthly payments, this plan will cover the costs for a few checkups and some preventative care visits. Keep in mind that you’ll have to pay extra every time you see a specialist. If you’re a young person of good health without any dependents, this plan could be perfect for you.
Silver 70 Plan: The Silver Plan will cost a little more per month, but you’ll get coverage for all the basics, and then some. You’ll still have to pay out-of-pocket for outpatient surgery or hospital visits. The Silver Plan is a smart option for individuals who work hard to keep their health in great condition.
Gold 80 Plan: If you want a comprehensive health plan, the Gold Plan is a solid choice. In exchange for modest monthly payments, you’ll enjoy lower deductibles every time you visit the hospital or see a specialist. These lower deductibles will save you money over time, giving you more room in your long-term budget.
Platinum 90 Plan: Choose the Platinum Plan for top-tier coverage. Your higher monthly payments will result in coverage for regular preventative care sessions, physician visits and trips to the emergency room. And the best part is you’ll have no deductible to pay, saving individuals and families a lot of money over time.


Request a quote for Kaiser health insurance today or contact us for more information on how we can help you achieve your health care goals.

