L.A. Care Health Insurance Coverage
Find the Lowest Prices Available on L.A. Care Medical Insurance Plans or Get Discounts Through Our Covered California Options
As a community-accountable health plan, L.A. Care is the largest publicly operated health plan in the United States. Their mission “is to provide access to quality health care for Los Angeles County’s vulnerable and low-income communities and residents and to support the safety net required to achieve that purpose.”

LA Care Health Plan logo

Established in 1997, and based in Los Angeles, California, L.A. Care Health Plan grew out of a vision to offer Los Angeles low-income resident’s health coverage. Today the health plan serves over 1.8 million members through several health coverage programs that include L.A.Care Covered, Medi-Cal, L.A.Care Cal MediConnect Plan, L.A. Care’s Healthy Kids and PASC-SEIU Homecare Workers Health Care Plan.

L.A. Care is one of 11 carriers offered on California’s State Exchange: Covered California. They offer coverage in the Northeast and Southwest Los Angeles county pricing regions. Members can receive information and assistance in their preferred language other than English. Approximately 73% of L.A. Care’s Covered California enrollees are part of a racial/ethnic group other than Caucasian/white.

Take Note
L.A. Care takes its member’s needs seriously. Members can take advantage of in person interpretation services in over 50 languages, and over the phone interpretations in 180 languages, and can receive membership materials in 10 languages.

Because of L.A. Care’s cultural and linguistic outreach efforts to its diverse membership, the NCQA (National Committee for Quality Assurance) awarded them the Multicultural Health Care Distinction. They were one of 11 health plans in the United States to receive this honor.

L.A. Care has partnered with the Los Angeles Department of Public Health to implement the eConsult system to allow primary care doctors and specialists to discuss patient cases. This has created more efficiency by reducing wait time for specialists and removing referrals that are not needed.

Network
For 2016 L.A. Care’s individual and family plans offered through Covered California will provide access to

42 Hospitals
19 Medical Groups
2,801 Primary Care Doctors
2,559 Specialists
To view doctors and hospitals covered by L.A Care, click here to view the network.

The Future is Here
Besides the free preventative services, L.A. Care members have access to advice nurses over the phone, disease management programs, health education and exercise classes.

A new program called Pay Near Me has been implemented which allows members to conveniently pay their monthly health insurance premium with cash at any 7-Eleven, ACE Cash Express or Family Dollar Store. There are 77 locations in LA county and over 2000 sites throughout California where members can pay.
