Covered California 2023-2024 Open Enrollment Period: Nov. 1 – Jan. 31
Open enrollment is the period during which people can purchase health insurance for the upcoming year. During Open Enrollment you can apply without a Qualifying Life Event.

When Is the Open Enrollment Period for Obamacare 2023-2024?
Open Enrollment for Covered California begins on November 1, 2023 and continues until January 31, 2024.

What if I want to apply and it’s not Open Enrollment?
The only other way to buy an insurance plan outside of open enrollment is to qualify for special enrollment. This time frame is called the Special Enrollment Period (SEP). This exception allows you to apply for health insurance if you’ve had certain qualifying life events, such as:

Losing your job
Moving to a new state
Getting married or divorced
Becoming a widow or widower
Aging off your parent’s plan
Having a new baby
Note that you won’t be eligible for special enrollment if you lost your previous health plan because you failed to pay your monthly premiums or if you voluntarily cancelled the coverage.

What Are Your Options During Open Enrollment?
Depending on your current situation, you have the following options.

Buy a plan through Covered California. You may want to buy a plan through the marketplace if you qualify for a tax credit to help offset your premiums. Qualifying usually depends on your income and household size. Your total household income must be between 128% and 400% of the federal poverty level, or FPL.
Renew or change your current plan. During the open enrollment period, you can renew your existing plan. You won’t have to do anything if you want to keep what you have. But if your current plan is changing — for instance, your PCP is leaving the network, or your drugs aren’t in the list of covered medications — then you may want to switch to a plan that best suits your current needs. If you need to change policies, the open enrollment period is the best time.
Enroll in Medi-Cal. If your income is below 128% of the Federal Poverty Level, you qualify for Medi-Cal, which is Medicaid for Californians.

Which Health Insurance Options Don’t Use Open Enrollment?
Most health insurers in California use some sort of open enrollment program. But there are a few exceptions:

Medi-Cal: Medi-Cal doesn’t limit enrollment to the open enrollment period. If you’re eligible for Medi-Cal, you’re allowed to enroll anytime.
CHIP: The Children’s Health Insurance Program doesn’t limit enrollment to a specific time, either.
