Supplemental Health Insurance Plans
Supplemental health insurance plans are health care plans used to cover anything above and beyond basic medical coverage. These plans provide extra medical coverage and can also be used to contribute to other costs not covered by your primary insurance plan such as copayments, coinsurance, and deductibles.

Dental
Travel Insurance
Vision
Medicare Supplemental Plus

Most people with insurance from their employers may not be familiar with supplemental health insurance plans because they’ve never thought they needed them. That is until they receive medical bills from their primary doctor’s offices only to see a recent service that was not covered by their original plan.

Or maybe they bought individual insurance plans and had to sacrifice coverage in certain areas to gain more protection in other areas. And again, there are so many things that are not adequately covered by most health insurance plans.

Well, the good news is that supplemental health insurance helps you handle any medical costs and out-of-pocket expenses that come your way.

How Do Supplemental Health Insurance Plans Work?
Supplemental health insurance plans pay benefits to you. The amount you receive and how frequent it is paid out depends on the insurance coverage you have. Some common supplemental health plans provide specific disease coverage such as for cancer, Medigap, dismemberment insurance, accidental death, and hospital indemnity insurance.

Who Needs Supplemental Health Insurance?
Not everyone needs supplemental health coverage. While most of these plans are cheap, you certainly don’t need twofold coverage. Check out your basic health insurance policy to see if there any gaps in coverage. You don’t need supplemental health insurance unless you will potentially suffer the risk of financial strain from medical services not covered by your basic plan. On the other hand, if you have a risky job or a family history of serious illness that could cost you a lot, supplemental insurance can give you peace of mind for future uncertainties.

Here Are Some Examples of Supplemental Health Insurance Plans
There are many different types of supplemental health plans in California, most of which are specific to a particular area of coverage. Often, these plans are purchased on their own, which means you don’t need to be on any other medical plan to buy them.

Medicare Supplemental Plans: For seniors ages 65+ and qualified disabled individuals, after getting Medicare Parts A and B, they can add to their coverage by purchasing Medicare Advantage or a senior supplemental plan. Medicare Advantage tends to be more affordable, and the supplemental plans tend to offer more benefits and bigger doctor networks. Medicare Advantage usually includes prescription drugs, but supplemental plans do not. If you end up going with supplemental Medicare benefits, you’ll also want to add Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Coverage.
Dental Health Insurance: Basic health insurance plans cover dental benefits up to 18 years of age. If you are over 18 years of age, you would need to buy stand-alone dental health insurance coverage from an insurance company.
Short Term Health Insurance: This is a viable insurance plan for people who need coverage for less than six months. For instance, it would be perfect for individuals who are in-between insurance plans or for those who cannot afford regular insurance but would like to have short-term coverage.
Travel Health Insurance: This is a great plan for anyone traveling out of the United States to another country. It covers illnesses or accidents that happen while you were traveling. The plan period is valid from when you leave your country until you arrive at your destination.
Finding the Right Supplemental Health Insurance Plan
It can be difficult to find the right supplemental health coverage even when you know what your budget and needs are. Common sense will go a long way in helping you find the best policy. Our online services will provide you with free, instant quotes for supplemental health insurance plans from the top insurance companies in California.

Just take a few seconds to complete our confidential form. No contact information is needed, and you are under no obligation to buy.
