International Travel Medical Insurance and Short Term Insurance for Out-of-State Travel
To make the most of a trip, it’s a good idea to plan ahead. Consider including travel health insurance to your trip preparation, whether you’re traveling internationally or out-of-state. It’s added peace of mind for unplanned situations that may come up. With rates starting as low as $1 per day, cheap travel medical insurance is an affordable way to get insured while away. It’s easy to apply. Get a quote, complete the short application online and pay by credit card, and you’re on your way!

Short Term Health Insurance Coverage for Out-of-State Travel
When your travel takes you closer to home, consider getting short term health insurance while out-of-state. Coverage is temporary and basically covers major medical services, such as hospitalization, urgent care, and emergency room visits if they result in you getting admitted to the hospital. It does not cover medical services such as doctor visits, prescriptions, preventive services, or pre-existing conditions. For more information, click Short Term Health Insurance.

International Travel Health Insurance
Most anyone who is temporarily leaving their home country can benefit. International travel health insurance provides medical protection for American citizens leaving their country as well as for non-Americans while they are traveling in the U.S. Many types of travelers can apply and get international travel health insurance: newlyweds on honeymoon, people on missionary trips, business travelers and many more.

Note that international travel health insurance enrollment is not subject to medical underwriting, so you can’t be denied for pre-existing conditions; however, be aware that pre-existing conditions are not covered.

How does international medical insurance work?
Generally speaking, a travel medical insurance policy helps you with expenses for sudden and unexpected injury and illness while you are traveling outside of your home country. Emergency travel benefits also include some non-medical expenses, such as lost luggage, lodging replacement due to a natural disaster, or assistance with a return trip home due to a covered incident. If a covered incident was to come up, you would pay out of pocket until you reach the deductible amount, if applicable. After the deductible is satisfied, then, the insurance company will pay 80% of the next $5,000 of covered expenses. After that point, the international travel medical insurance carrier will pay 100% of covered expenses up to the overall maximum limit. The maximum coverage period for international travel insurance is 365 days for non-US citizens or residents traveling outside of the U.S. or U.S. Territories. For all other members, the maximum coverage period is 364 days. The minimum age to enroll is 14 days old. We offer international travel health insurance through HCC Travel Medical Insurance Services, which syndicates with Lloyd’s of London to offer international coverage. Their plan offerings allow you to customize the policy. You select the deductible size, coverage limit, and the policy period you want.

What does international travel health insurance cover?
Below are some common benefits on international travelers insurance. Note that restrictions apply and that this list is not all-inclusive.

Hospital charges for inpatient and outpatient services.
Urgent care in U.S. or Canada, providing it is not preventive or for a pre-existing condition.
Prescriptions related to a covered injury or illness. The cost to replace existing prescriptions due to loss, stolen, damaged, or expired medicines is not covered.
International Travel Medical Insurance covers health services rendered due to pregnancy complications.
Medical costs for an emergency medical evacuation.
Travel health insurance covers the return trip home if your trip is interrupted due to:
The death of an immediate family member.
Your home being severely destroyed.
A medical necessity.
Emergency dental services due to a covered accident.
Medical expenses for illness or injury resulting from terrorism.
Replacement accommodations if you are evacuated due to a natural disaster.
Lost checked luggage.

What is not covered under international travel health insurance?
Again, this is not the whole list, but these are some of the main exclusions.

Medical services for pre-existing health conditions.
Traditional emergency room visits, unless you are admitted to the hospital.
Routine or preventative services.
Pre-natal care services.
Costs that are over the usual, reasonable, and customary charges.
Travel insurance benefits do not apply while an American citizen is traveling in a U.S. state or territory.

Can I cancel my travel health insurance?
Travel insurance can be cancelled. There is no cost if you cancel your travel insurance before the travel dates. If you request cancellation during the policy period, the premium will be pro-rated and a $25 cancellation fee added.

Note: If there is any discrepancy between the above information and the HCC policy provisions, the HCC policy provisions will prevail.



For more information on temporary coverage, click Short Term Health Insurance.