Valley Health Insurance Coverage
Find the Lowest Prices Available on Valley Medical Insurance Plans or Get Discounts Through Our Covered California Options
Valley Health Plan

Santa Clara County has been served by Valley Health Plan (VHP) for over 30 years of serving Santa Clara county. They are a commercial HMO (Health Maintenance Organization) owned and operated locally by the county of Santa Clara.
Valley Health Plan has an appropriate tag line of “Speaking the language of health.” As their CEO, Bruce Butler says, “We pride ourselves on having personal service and a location where members can walk in to speak with us.”

They are honored to be chosen by Covered California; the California State Exchange as one of eleven health plans to offer insurance to the public. They offer coverage to those in pricing region 7; Santa Clara county.

Take Note
Valley Health Plan is licensed and accredited on several levels.

Knox-Keene licensed
NCQA (National Committee for Quality Assurance) Interim-Accredited HMO
Network
VHP members have access to a broad range of primary and specialty care doctors, select local pharmacies, and to Safeway and Walgreen pharmacies nationally.

Network Hospitals include:

Lucile Packard Children’s Hospital
Santa Clara Valley Medical Center
Stanford Hospital and Clinics
For a complete list of providers and if they are accepting new patients, please visit Valley Health Plan’s provider list by clicking here.

The Future is Here
Valley Health Plan is tracking with the needs of its members by offering a 24/7 Nurse Advice phone line where an experienced nurse can answer questions that range from an urgent to general health care need.

Navitus, Valley Health Plan’s Pharmacy Benefit Manager, allows members to access formulary and cost information, do a pharmacy search, access medication history, obtain mail-order support, and initiate a request for a non-formulary drug.

There are many Health Education Wellness Programs members can take advantage of including free classes in Chronic Disease Prevention and Management, fitness classes including yoga, jazzercise, Pilates, and Zumba.
